# booking-system
This is a fullstack booking-system web-application. The main focus is on APIs


The main purpose of this project is to:
* Understand how "REST APIs" work.
* Test and implement "HTTP methods" (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE).
* Develop a "Simple UI" that connects and interacts with a backend API in real time.
* Practice database management and schema design with "MongoDB"

 Tech Stack
- Backend: Node.js, Express.js
- Database: MongoDB Mongoose
- Frontend: HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript
- Security: API Key Authentication Middleware

  Features
- Create: Add new appointments 
- Read: View a list of all bookings in a table that created in the Dom.
- Update: Edit existing appointment details with a prefilled form.
- Delete: Remove appointments with a built in browser confirmation modal.


 How I Tested the API

To ensure that the API is working before building the front-end, I performed extensive testing using "Insomnia"


I verified all CRUD (Get, Post, Put, Delete) operations by sending requests to:
- `GET /api/appointments` - To fetch all bookings.
- `POST /api/appointments` - To create a new booking with json body
- `PUT /api/appointments/:id` - To update an appintment using the unique id that is generated by mongodb. ( I also added the api key for authentication inside headers)
-`DELETE /api/appointments/:id` - To remove an appointment using the unique id that is generated by mongodb.

 How I tested the
-Sending requests without a some body enetries (`400 bad request`)
- Sending requests to delete or update without the unique id (`404 not found`)
- Sending requests with the valid `x-api-key` header ( `200 OK`).
 How to Run This Project

Follow these steps to get the project running on your local computer.

 1. Clone the Repository
- open your terminal 
- git clone [https://github.com/saraSilvade/booking-system.git](https://github.com/saraSilvade/booking-system.git)
- cd booking-system
- npm install
- docker start mongo 
- npm start
- To test the front end open the live server

  Note*
  you need to set up the enviroment variables in your .env file
  PORT= your Port
MONGODB_URI=your_mongodb_connection_string
API_KEY=your_API_Key
 